docs/flow/modin/data_management/factories.rst, before:

Factories Module Description
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Brief description
'''''''''''''''''
Modin has several execution backends. Calling any DataFrame API function will end up in some backend-specific method. The responsibility of dispatching high-level API calls to backend-specific function lays on :doc:`QueryCompiler </flow/modin/backends/query_compiler.rst>`, which is determined by the factory of the corresponding backend. The mission of this module is to route IO function calls from the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations, which build `QueryCompiler` of the appropriate backend.

Backend representation via Factories
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
Backend is a combination of the `QueryCompiler` and `Execution Engine`. For example, ``PandasOnRay`` backend means the combination of the ``PandasQueryCompiler`` and ``Ray`` engine. 

In the scope of this module, each backend is represented with a factory class located in ``factories.py``. Factory contains the IO module of the corresponding backend and responsible for dispatching calls of IO functions to their actual implementations in an underlying IO module. For more information about IO module visit :doc:`related doc </flow/modin/engines/base/io.rst>`.

Engine Dispatcher
'''''''''''''''''
``EngineDispatcher`` provides public methods whose interface corresponds to the same pandas IO functions, the only difference is that they return `QueryCompiler` of the selected backend instead of DataFrame. ``EngineDispatcher`` is responsible for routing these IO calls to the factory which represents the selected backend.

So when you call ``read_csv()`` function and your backend is ``PandasOnRay`` then the trace would be the following:
``modin.pandas.read_csv`` calls ``EngineDispatcher.read_csv``, which calls ``.read_csv`` function of the factory of the selected backend, in our case it's ``PandasOnRayFactory._read_csv``, which in turn forwards this call to the actual implementation of ``read_csv`` — to the ``PandasOnRayIO.read_csv``. In the result ``modin.pandas.read_csv`` will return a Modin DataFrame with an appropriate `QueryCompiler` bound to it, which is responsible for dispatching all of the further function calls.

Commit message:

DOCS-#2941: Add 'TODO' note to factories documentation
Signed-off-by: Dmitry Chigarev <dmitry.chigarev@intel.com>

docs/flow/modin/data_management/factories.rst, after:

..
    TODO: add links to documentation for mentioned modules.

Factories Module Description
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Brief description
'''''''''''''''''
Modin has several execution backends. Calling any DataFrame API function will end up in some backend-specific method. The responsibility of dispatching high-level API calls to backend-specific function lays on `QueryCompiler`, which is determined by the factory of the corresponding backend. The mission of this module is to route IO function calls from the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations, which build `QueryCompiler` of the appropriate backend.

Backend representation via Factories
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
Backend is a combination of the `QueryCompiler` and `Execution Engine`. For example, ``PandasOnRay`` backend means the combination of the ``PandasQueryCompiler`` and ``Ray`` engine. 

In the scope of this module, each backend is represented with a factory class located in ``factories.py``. Factory contains the IO module of the corresponding backend and responsible for dispatching calls of IO functions to their actual implementations in an underlying IO module. For more information about IO module visit :doc:`related doc </flow/modin/engines/base/io.rst>`.

Engine Dispatcher
'''''''''''''''''
``EngineDispatcher`` provides public methods whose interface corresponds to the same pandas IO functions, the only difference is that they return `QueryCompiler` of the selected backend instead of DataFrame. ``EngineDispatcher`` is responsible for routing these IO calls to the factory which represents the selected backend.

So when you call ``read_csv()`` function and your backend is ``PandasOnRay`` then the trace would be the following:
``modin.pandas.read_csv`` calls ``EngineDispatcher.read_csv``, which calls ``.read_csv`` function of the factory of the selected backend, in our case it's ``PandasOnRayFactory._read_csv``, which in turn forwards this call to the actual implementation of ``read_csv`` — to the ``PandasOnRayIO.read_csv``. In the result ``modin.pandas.read_csv`` will return a Modin DataFrame with an appropriate `QueryCompiler` bound to it, which is responsible for dispatching all of the further function calls.
