docs/experimental_features/modin_in_the_cloud.rst, before:

Modin in the Cloud
==================

Modin implements functionality that allows to transfer computing to the cloud with minimal effort.
Please note that this feature is experimental and behavior or interfaces could be changed.

Prerequisites
"""""""""""""

  * Sign up with a cloud provider and get credentials file. Note that we supported only AWS currently, more are planned.
  (For AWS, on credentials file format see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html#cli-configure-files-where)

Setup environment
"""""""""""""""""
pip install modin[remote] - which install the following dependencies:
  * RPyC - https://github.com/tomerfiliba-org/rpyc
  Allows to perform remote procedure calls.
  * Cloudpickle - https://github.com/cloudpipe/cloudpickle
  Allows pickling of functions and classes, which is used in our distributed runtime.
  * Boto3 - https://github.com/boto/boto3
  Allows to create and setup AWS cloud machines. Optional library for Ray Autoscaler.

It also needs Ray Autoscaler component, which is implicitly installed with Ray (note that Ray from ``conda`` is now missing that component!).
More information in https://docs.ray.io/en/releases-0.8.2/autoscaling.html#automatic-cluster-setup.

Architecture
""""""""""""

.. image:: ../img/modin_in_the_cloud_architecture.png
  :alt: Architecture of Modin in the Cloud
  :align: center

Notes:
  * To get maximum performance, you need to try to reduce the amount of data transferred between local and remote environments as much as possible.
  * To ensure correct operation, it is necessary to ensure the equivalence of versions of all Python libraries (including the interpreter) in the local and remote environments.


Public interface
""""""""""""""""

.. automodule:: modin.experimental.cloud
  :members:


Usage examples
""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: python

  """
  This is a very basic sample script for running things remotely.
  It requires `aws_credentials` file to be present in current working directory.
  On credentials file format see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html#cli-configure-files-where
  """
  import logging
  import modin.pandas as pd
  from modin.experimental.cloud import cluster
  # set up verbose logging so Ray autoscaler would print a lot of things
  # and we'll see that stuff is alive and kicking
  logging.basicConfig(format="%(asctime)s %(message)s")
  logger = logging.getLogger()
  logger.setLevel(logging.DEBUG)
  example_cluster = cluster.create("aws", "aws_credentials")
  with example_cluster:
      remote_df = pd.DataFrame([1, 2, 3, 4])
      print(len(remote_df))  # len() is executed remotely

Some more examples can be found in `examples\cluster` folder.

Commit message:

DOCS-#1841: address review comments
Signed-off-by: Myachev <anatoly.myachev@intel.com>

docs/experimental_features/modin_in_the_cloud.rst, after:

Modin in the Cloud
==================

Modin implements functionality that allows to transfer computing to the cloud with minimal effort.
Please note that this feature is experimental and behavior or interfaces could be changed.

Prerequisites
"""""""""""""

Sign up with a cloud provider and get credentials file. Note that we supported only AWS currently, more are planned.
(`AWS credentials file format`_)

Setup environment
"""""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: shell

  pip install modin[remote]

This command install the following dependencies:

  * `RPyC`_ - allows to perform remote procedure calls.
  * `Cloudpickle`_ - allows pickling of functions and classes, which is used in our distributed runtime.
  * `Boto3`_ - allows to create and setup AWS cloud machines. Optional library for Ray Autoscaler.

Notes:
  * It also needs Ray Autoscaler component, which is implicitly installed with Ray (note that Ray from ``conda`` is now missing that component!).
    More information in `Ray docs`_.

Architecture
""""""""""""

.. image:: ../img/modin_in_the_cloud_architecture.png
  :alt: Architecture of Modin in the Cloud
  :align: center

Notes:
  * To get maximum performance, you need to try to reduce the amount of data transferred between local and remote environments as much as possible.
  * To ensure correct operation, it is necessary to ensure the equivalence of versions of all Python libraries (including the interpreter) in the local and remote environments.


Public interface
""""""""""""""""

.. automodule:: modin.experimental.cloud
  :members:


Usage examples
""""""""""""""

.. code-block:: python

  """
  This is a very basic sample script for running things remotely.
  It requires `aws_credentials` file to be present in current working directory.
  On credentials file format see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html#cli-configure-files-where
  """
  import logging
  import modin.pandas as pd
  from modin.experimental.cloud import cluster
  # set up verbose logging so Ray autoscaler would print a lot of things
  # and we'll see that stuff is alive and kicking
  logging.basicConfig(format="%(asctime)s %(message)s")
  logger = logging.getLogger()
  logger.setLevel(logging.DEBUG)
  example_cluster = cluster.create("aws", "aws_credentials")
  with example_cluster:
      remote_df = pd.DataFrame([1, 2, 3, 4])
      print(len(remote_df))  # len() is executed remotely

Some more examples can be found in ``examples/cluster`` folder.

.. _`RPyC`: https://github.com/tomerfiliba-org/rpyc
.. _`Cloudpickle`: https://github.com/cloudpipe/cloudpickle
.. _`Boto3`: https://github.com/boto/boto3
.. _`AWS credentials file format`: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html#cli-configure-files-where
.. _`Ray docs`: https://docs.ray.io/en/releases-0.8.2/autoscaling.html#automatic-cluster-setup
