docs/usage_guide/advanced_usage/index.rst, before:

Advanced Usage
==============

.. toctree::
   :titlesonly:
   :hidden:

   spreadsheets_api
   progress_bar
   modin_sql
   modin_xgboost
   modin_in_the_cloud
   
.. meta::
    :description lang=en:
        Description of Modin's advanced features.

Modin aims to not only optimize pandas, but also provide a comprehensive, 
integrated toolkit for data scientists. We are actively developing data science tools 
such as DataFrame - spreadsheet integration, DataFrame algebra, progress bars, SQL queries
on DataFrames, and more. Join the `Discourse`_ for the latest updates!

Experimental APIs
-----------------

Modin also supports these experimental APIs on top of pandas that are under active development.

- :py:func:`~modin.experimental.pandas.read_csv_glob` -- read multiple files in a directory
- :py:func:`~modin.experimental.pandas.read_sql` -- add optional parameters for the database connection
- :py:func:`~modin.experimental.pandas.read_pickle_distributed`  -- read multiple files in a directory
- :py:meth:`~modin.experimental.pandas.DataFrame.to_pickle_distributed` -- write to multiple files in a directory

Modin Spreadsheet API: Render Dataframes as Spreadsheets
--------------------------------------------------------
The Spreadsheet API for Modin allows you to render the dataframe as a spreadsheet to easily explore 
your data and perform operations on a graphical user interface. The API also includes features for recording 
the changes made to the dataframe and exporting them as reproducible code. Built on top of Modin and SlickGrid, 
the spreadsheet interface is able to provide interactive response times even at a scale of billions of rows. 
See our `Modin Spreadsheet API documentation`_ for more details.

.. figure:: /img/modin_spreadsheet_mini_demo.gif
   :align: center
   :width: 650px
   :height: 350px   

Progress Bar
------------
Visual progress bar for Dataframe operations such as groupby and fillna, as well as for file reading operations such as 
read_csv. Built using the tqdm library and Ray execution engine. See `Progress Bar documentation`_ for more details.

.. figure:: /img/progress_bar_example.png
   :align: center   

Dataframe Algebra
-----------------
A minimal set of operators that can be composed to express any dataframe query for use in query planning and optimization.
See our `paper`_ for more information, and full documentation is coming soon!

SQL on Modin Dataframes
------------------------

.. figure:: /img/modin_sql_example.png
   :align: center   

Read about Modin Dataframe support for SQL queries in this recent `blog post`_. Check out the `Modin SQL documentation`_ as well!

Distributed XGBoost on Modin
----------------------------
Modin provides an implementation of distributed XGBoost machine learning algorithm on Modin DataFrames. See our
:doc:`Distributed XGBoost on Modin documentation <modin_xgboost>` for details about installation and usage, as well as
:doc:`Modin XGBoost architecture documentation </flow/modin/experimental/xgboost>` for information about implementation and
internal execution flow.

.. _`blog post`: https://medium.com/riselab/why-every-data-scientist-using-pandas-needs-modin-bringing-sql-to-dataframes-3b216b29a7c0
.. _`Modin SQL documentation`: modin_sql.html
.. _`Modin Spreadsheet API documentation`: spreadsheets_api.html
.. _`Progress Bar documentation`: progress_bar.html
.. _`Paper`: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2001.00888.pdf
.. _`Discourse`: https://discuss.modin.org

Commit message:

Add config & partitioning API sections to the user guide
Signed-off-by: Dmitry Chigarev <dmitry.chigarev@intel.com>

docs/usage_guide/advanced_usage/index.rst, after:

Advanced Usage
==============

.. toctree::
   :titlesonly:
   :hidden:

   /flow/modin/distributed/dataframe/pandas
   spreadsheets_api
   progress_bar
   modin_sql
   modin_xgboost
   modin_in_the_cloud
   
.. meta::
    :description lang=en:
        Description of Modin's advanced features.

Modin aims to not only optimize pandas, but also provide a comprehensive, 
integrated toolkit for data scientists. We are actively developing data science tools 
such as DataFrame - spreadsheet integration, DataFrame algebra, progress bars, SQL queries
on DataFrames, and more. Join the `Discourse`_ for the latest updates!

Experimental APIs
-----------------

Modin also supports these experimental APIs on top of pandas that are under active development.

- :py:func:`~modin.experimental.pandas.read_csv_glob` -- read multiple files in a directory
- :py:func:`~modin.experimental.pandas.read_sql` -- add optional parameters for the database connection
- :py:func:`~modin.experimental.pandas.read_pickle_distributed`  -- read multiple files in a directory
- :py:meth:`~modin.experimental.pandas.DataFrame.to_pickle_distributed` -- write to multiple files in a directory

DataFrame partitioning API
--------------------------

Modin DataFrame provides an API to manipulate with its partitions: you can extract raw partitions from
:py:class:`~modin.pandas.dataframe.DataFrame`, modify their structure by reshuffling or applying some
functions, and then inject them back to the DataFrame. Visit
:doc:`partitioning API documentation </flow/modin/distributed/dataframe/pandas>` to learn more.

Modin Spreadsheet API: Render Dataframes as Spreadsheets
--------------------------------------------------------
The Spreadsheet API for Modin allows you to render the dataframe as a spreadsheet to easily explore 
your data and perform operations on a graphical user interface. The API also includes features for recording 
the changes made to the dataframe and exporting them as reproducible code. Built on top of Modin and SlickGrid, 
the spreadsheet interface is able to provide interactive response times even at a scale of billions of rows. 
See our `Modin Spreadsheet API documentation`_ for more details.

.. figure:: /img/modin_spreadsheet_mini_demo.gif
   :align: center
   :width: 650px
   :height: 350px   

Progress Bar
------------
Visual progress bar for Dataframe operations such as groupby and fillna, as well as for file reading operations such as 
read_csv. Built using the tqdm library and Ray execution engine. See `Progress Bar documentation`_ for more details.

.. figure:: /img/progress_bar_example.png
   :align: center   

Dataframe Algebra
-----------------
A minimal set of operators that can be composed to express any dataframe query for use in query planning and optimization.
See our `paper`_ for more information, and full documentation is coming soon!

SQL on Modin Dataframes
------------------------

.. figure:: /img/modin_sql_example.png
   :align: center   

Read about Modin Dataframe support for SQL queries in this recent `blog post`_. Check out the `Modin SQL documentation`_ as well!

Distributed XGBoost on Modin
----------------------------
Modin provides an implementation of distributed XGBoost machine learning algorithm on Modin DataFrames. See our
:doc:`Distributed XGBoost on Modin documentation <modin_xgboost>` for details about installation and usage, as well as
:doc:`Modin XGBoost architecture documentation </flow/modin/experimental/xgboost>` for information about implementation and
internal execution flow.

.. _`blog post`: https://medium.com/riselab/why-every-data-scientist-using-pandas-needs-modin-bringing-sql-to-dataframes-3b216b29a7c0
.. _`Modin SQL documentation`: modin_sql.html
.. _`Modin Spreadsheet API documentation`: spreadsheets_api.html
.. _`Progress Bar documentation`: progress_bar.html
.. _`Paper`: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2001.00888.pdf
.. _`Discourse`: https://discuss.modin.org
