docs/usage_guide/examples/index.rst, before:

Modin Usage Examples
====================

This section shows Modin usage examples in different scenarios like Modin on a local/remote cluster,
Modin in the cloud, the use of Modin spreadsheet.

Tutorials
'''''''''

The following tutorials cover the basic usage of Modin. `Here <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NglkafEmbhE>`_ is a one hour video tutorial that walks through these basic exercises.

- Exercise 1: Introduction to Modin [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_1.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_1.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 2: Speed Improvements with Modin [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_2.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_2.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 3: Defaulting to pandas with Modin [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_3.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_3.ipynb>`_]

The following tutorials covers more advanced features in Modin:

- Exercise 4: Experimental Features in Modin (Spreadsheet, Progress Bar) [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_4.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_4.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 5: Setting up Modin in a Cluster Environment [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/cluster/exercise_5.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 6: Running Modin in a Cluster Environment [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/cluster/exercise_6.ipynb>`_]

How to get required dependencies for the tutorial notebooks and to run them please refer to the respective `README.md <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/tree/master/examples/tutorial/README.md>`_ file.


Data Science Benchmarks
'''''''''''''''''''''''

- Using Modin with the NYC Taxi Dataset [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/jupyter/NYC_Taxi.ipynb>`_]
- Using Modin with the Census Dataset (coming soon...)
- Using Modin with the Plasticc Dataset (coming soon...)

Modin in the Cloud
''''''''''''''''''

- Using Experimental Modin in the cloud with the NYC Taxi Dataset on an AWS cluster [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/jupyter/NYC_Taxi_cloud.ipynb>`_]

Modin Spreadsheets
''''''''''''''''''

- Using Modin along with the Spreadsheets API [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/spreadsheet/tutorial.ipynb>`_]

Modin with scikit-learn
'''''''''''''''''''''''

- Modin for Machine Learning with scikit-learn [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/modin-scikit-learn-example.ipynb>`_]

Commit message:

DOCS-#3953: Add docs and notebook examples on running Modin with OmniSci (#4001)
Co-authored-by: Yaroslav Igoshev <Poolliver868@mail.ru>
Signed-off-by: Maria Rubtsova <maria.rubtsova@intel.com>

docs/usage_guide/examples/index.rst, after:

Modin Usage Examples
====================

This section shows Modin usage examples in different scenarios like Modin on a local/remote cluster,
Modin in the cloud, the use of Modin spreadsheet.

Tutorials
'''''''''

The following tutorials cover the basic usage of Modin. `Here <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NglkafEmbhE>`_ is a one hour video tutorial that walks through these basic exercises.

- Exercise 1: Introduction to Modin [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_1.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_1.ipynb>`_, `Source OmnisciOnNative <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/omnisci_on_native/local/exercise_1.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 2: Speed Improvements with Modin [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_2.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_2.ipynb>`_, `Source OmnisciOnNative <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/omnisci_on_native/local/exercise_2.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 3: Defaulting to pandas with Modin [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_3.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_3.ipynb>`_, `Source OmnisciOnNative <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/omnisci_on_native/local/exercise_3.ipynb>`_]

The following tutorials covers more advanced features in Modin:

- Exercise 4: Experimental Features in Modin (Spreadsheet, Progress Bar) [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_4.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_4.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 5: Setting up Modin in a Cluster Environment [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/cluster/exercise_5.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 6: Running Modin in a Cluster Environment [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/cluster/exercise_6.ipynb>`_]

How to get required dependencies for the tutorial notebooks and to run them please refer to the respective `README.md <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/tree/master/examples/tutorial/README.md>`_ file.


Data Science Benchmarks
'''''''''''''''''''''''

- Using Modin with the NYC Taxi Dataset [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/jupyter/NYC_Taxi.ipynb>`_]
- Using Modin with the Census Dataset (coming soon...)
- Using Modin with the Plasticc Dataset (coming soon...)

Modin in the Cloud
''''''''''''''''''

- Using Experimental Modin in the cloud with the NYC Taxi Dataset on an AWS cluster [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/jupyter/NYC_Taxi_cloud.ipynb>`_]

Modin Spreadsheets
''''''''''''''''''

- Using Modin along with the Spreadsheets API [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/spreadsheet/tutorial.ipynb>`_]

Modin with scikit-learn
'''''''''''''''''''''''

- Modin for Machine Learning with scikit-learn [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/modin-scikit-learn-example.ipynb>`_]
