docs/getting_started/examples.rst, before:

Examples and Resources
======================

Here you can find additional resources to learn about Modin. To learn more about
advanced usage for Modin, please refer to :doc:`this section </usage_guide/index>`.

Usage Examples
''''''''''''''

The following notebooks demonstrate how Modin can be used for scalable data science:

- Quickstart Guide to Modin [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/tree/master/examples/quickstart.ipynb>`_]
- Using Modin with the NYC Taxi Dataset [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/jupyter/Modin_Taxi.ipynb>`_]
- Modin for Machine Learning with scikit-learn [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/modin-scikit-learn-example.ipynb>`_]

Tutorials
'''''''''

The following tutorials cover the basic usage of Modin. `Here <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NglkafEmbhE>`_ is a one hour video tutorial that walks through these basic exercises.

- Exercise 1: Introduction to Modin [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_1.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_1.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 2: Speed Improvements with Modin [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_2.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_2.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 3: Defaulting to pandas with Modin [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_3.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_3.ipynb>`_]

The following tutorials covers more advanced features in Modin:

- Exercise 4: Experimental Features in Modin (Spreadsheet, Progress Bar) [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_4.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_4.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 5: Setting up Modin in a Cluster Environment [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/cluster/exercise_5.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 6: Running Modin in a Cluster Environment [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/cluster/exercise_6.ipynb>`_]

How to get required dependencies for the tutorial notebooks and to run them please refer to the respective `README.md <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/tree/master/examples/tutorial/README.md>`_ file.

Talks & Podcasts
''''''''''''''''

- `Scaling Interactive Data Science with Modin and Ray <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ycSf1IbBGWk>`_ (20 minute, Ray Summit 2021)
- `Unleash The Power Of Dataframes At Any Scale With Modin <https://www.pythonpodcast.com/modin-parallel-dataframe-episode-324/>`_  (40 minute, Python Podcast 2021)
- `[Russian] Distributed Data Processing and XGBoost Training and Prediction with Modin <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oo_lxUjsFTM&t=1s>`_ (30 minute, PyCon Russia 2021)
- `[Russian] Efficient Data Science with Modin <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cOM82kHRwkM&t=6568s>`_ (30 minute, ISP RAS Open 2021)
- `Modin: Scaling the Capabilities of the Data Scientist, not the Machine <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NglkafEmbhE>`_ (1 hour, RISE Camp 2020)
- `Modin: Pandas Scalability with Devin Petersohn <https://softwareengineeringdaily.com/2020/07/23/modin-pandas-scalability-with-devin-petersohn/>`_ (1 hour, Software Engineering Daily Podcast 2020)
- `Introduction to the DataFrame and Modin <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_0eVVLXrtfY>`_ (20 minute, RISECamp 2019)
- `Scaling Interactive Pandas Workflows with Modin <hhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-HjLd_3ahCw>`_ (40 minute, PyData NYC 2018)

Community contributions
'''''''''''''''''''''''

Here are some blogposts and articles about Modin:

- `Anaconda Blog: Scale your pandas workflow with Modin by Vasilij Litvinov <https://www.anaconda.com/blog/scale-your-pandas-workflow-with-modin>`_
- `The Modin view of Scaling Pandas by Devin Petersohn <https://towardsdatascience.com/the-modin-view-of-scaling-pandas-825215533122>`_
- `Data Science at Scale with Modin by Areg Melik-Adamyan <https://medium.com/intel-analytics-software/data-science-at-scale-with-modin-5319175e6b9a>`_
- `Speed up Pandas using Modin by Eric D. Brown, D.Sc. <https://pythondata.com/quick-tip-speed-up-pandas-using-modin/>`_
- `Explore Python Libraries: Make Your DataFrames Parallel With Modin by Zachary Bennett <https://www.pluralsight.com/guides/explore-python-libraries:-make-your-dataframes-parallel-with-modin>`_
- `Get faster pandas with Modin, even on your laptops by Parul Pandey <https://towardsdatascience.com/get-faster-pandas-with-modin-even-on-your-laptops-b527a2eeda74>`_
- `How to speedup pandas by changing one line of code by Shrivarsheni <https://www.machinelearningplus.com/python/modin-speedup-pandas/>`_
- `How To Accelerate Pandas With Just One Line Of Code by Analytics India <https://analyticsindiamag.com/how-to-accelerate-pandas-with-just-one-line-of-code-modin/>`_


Here are some articles contributed by the international community:

- `[Chinese] 用 Modin 来提速 pandas 工作流程 by Python Chinese Community <https://blog.csdn.net/BF02jgtRS00XKtCx/article/details/90709222>`_
- `[German] Was ist Modin? by Dipl.-Ing. (FH) Stefan Luber <https://www.bigdata-insider.de/was-ist-modin-a-982826/>`_
- `[Russian] Ускоряем Pandas при помощи модуля modin by Разработка <https://vc.ru/dev/187095-uskoryaem-pandas-pri-pomoshchi-modulya-modin>`_
- `[Korean] modin 으로 pandas 더 빠르게 사용하기 by 분석뉴비 <https://data-newbie.tistory.com/279>`_

If you would like your articles to be featured here, please `submit a pull request <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/pulls>`_ to let us know!

Commit message:

DOCS-#3953: Add docs and notebook examples on running Modin with OmniSci (#4001)
Co-authored-by: Yaroslav Igoshev <Poolliver868@mail.ru>
Signed-off-by: Maria Rubtsova <maria.rubtsova@intel.com>

docs/getting_started/examples.rst, after:

Examples and Resources
======================

Here you can find additional resources to learn about Modin. To learn more about
advanced usage for Modin, please refer to :doc:`this section </usage_guide/index>`.

Usage Examples
''''''''''''''

The following notebooks demonstrate how Modin can be used for scalable data science:

- Quickstart Guide to Modin [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/tree/master/examples/quickstart.ipynb>`_]
- Using Modin with the NYC Taxi Dataset [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/jupyter/Modin_Taxi.ipynb>`_]
- Modin for Machine Learning with scikit-learn [`Source <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/modin-scikit-learn-example.ipynb>`_]

Tutorials
'''''''''

The following tutorials cover the basic usage of Modin. `Here <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NglkafEmbhE>`_ is a one hour video tutorial that walks through these basic exercises.

- Exercise 1: Introduction to Modin [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_1.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_1.ipynb>`_, `Source OmnisciOnNative <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/omnisci_on_native/local/exercise_1.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 2: Speed Improvements with Modin [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_2.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_2.ipynb>`_, `Source OmnisciOnNative <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/omnisci_on_native/local/exercise_2.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 3: Defaulting to pandas with Modin [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_3.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_3.ipynb>`_, `Source OmnisciOnNative <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/omnisci_on_native/local/exercise_3.ipynb>`_]

The following tutorials covers more advanced features in Modin:

- Exercise 4: Experimental Features in Modin (Spreadsheet, Progress Bar) [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/local/exercise_4.ipynb>`_, `Source PandasOnDask <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_dask/local/exercise_4.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 5: Setting up Modin in a Cluster Environment [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/cluster/exercise_5.ipynb>`_]
- Exercise 6: Running Modin in a Cluster Environment [`Source PandasOnRay <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/master/examples/tutorial/jupyter/execution/pandas_on_ray/cluster/exercise_6.ipynb>`_]

How to get required dependencies for the tutorial notebooks and to run them please refer to the respective `README.md <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/tree/master/examples/tutorial/README.md>`_ file.

Talks & Podcasts
''''''''''''''''

- `Scaling Interactive Data Science with Modin and Ray <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ycSf1IbBGWk>`_ (20 minute, Ray Summit 2021)
- `Unleash The Power Of Dataframes At Any Scale With Modin <https://www.pythonpodcast.com/modin-parallel-dataframe-episode-324/>`_  (40 minute, Python Podcast 2021)
- `[Russian] Distributed Data Processing and XGBoost Training and Prediction with Modin <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oo_lxUjsFTM&t=1s>`_ (30 minute, PyCon Russia 2021)
- `[Russian] Efficient Data Science with Modin <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cOM82kHRwkM&t=6568s>`_ (30 minute, ISP RAS Open 2021)
- `Modin: Scaling the Capabilities of the Data Scientist, not the Machine <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NglkafEmbhE>`_ (1 hour, RISE Camp 2020)
- `Modin: Pandas Scalability with Devin Petersohn <https://softwareengineeringdaily.com/2020/07/23/modin-pandas-scalability-with-devin-petersohn/>`_ (1 hour, Software Engineering Daily Podcast 2020)
- `Introduction to the DataFrame and Modin <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_0eVVLXrtfY>`_ (20 minute, RISECamp 2019)
- `Scaling Interactive Pandas Workflows with Modin <hhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-HjLd_3ahCw>`_ (40 minute, PyData NYC 2018)

Community contributions
'''''''''''''''''''''''

Here are some blogposts and articles about Modin:

- `Anaconda Blog: Scale your pandas workflow with Modin by Vasilij Litvinov <https://www.anaconda.com/blog/scale-your-pandas-workflow-with-modin>`_
- `The Modin view of Scaling Pandas by Devin Petersohn <https://towardsdatascience.com/the-modin-view-of-scaling-pandas-825215533122>`_
- `Data Science at Scale with Modin by Areg Melik-Adamyan <https://medium.com/intel-analytics-software/data-science-at-scale-with-modin-5319175e6b9a>`_
- `Speed up Pandas using Modin by Eric D. Brown, D.Sc. <https://pythondata.com/quick-tip-speed-up-pandas-using-modin/>`_
- `Explore Python Libraries: Make Your DataFrames Parallel With Modin by Zachary Bennett <https://www.pluralsight.com/guides/explore-python-libraries:-make-your-dataframes-parallel-with-modin>`_
- `Get faster pandas with Modin, even on your laptops by Parul Pandey <https://towardsdatascience.com/get-faster-pandas-with-modin-even-on-your-laptops-b527a2eeda74>`_
- `How to speedup pandas by changing one line of code by Shrivarsheni <https://www.machinelearningplus.com/python/modin-speedup-pandas/>`_
- `How To Accelerate Pandas With Just One Line Of Code by Analytics India <https://analyticsindiamag.com/how-to-accelerate-pandas-with-just-one-line-of-code-modin/>`_


Here are some articles contributed by the international community:

- `[Chinese] 用 Modin 来提速 pandas 工作流程 by Python Chinese Community <https://blog.csdn.net/BF02jgtRS00XKtCx/article/details/90709222>`_
- `[German] Was ist Modin? by Dipl.-Ing. (FH) Stefan Luber <https://www.bigdata-insider.de/was-ist-modin-a-982826/>`_
- `[Russian] Ускоряем Pandas при помощи модуля modin by Разработка <https://vc.ru/dev/187095-uskoryaem-pandas-pri-pomoshchi-modulya-modin>`_
- `[Korean] modin 으로 pandas 더 빠르게 사용하기 by 분석뉴비 <https://data-newbie.tistory.com/279>`_

If you would like your articles to be featured here, please `submit a pull request <https://github.com/modin-project/modin/pulls>`_ to let us know!
