docs/getting_started/troubleshooting.rst, before:

Troubleshooting
===============

We hope your experience with Modin is bug-free, but there are some quirks about Modin
that may require troubleshooting. If you are still having issues, please post on
the #support channel on our Slack_ community or open a Github issue_.

Frequently encountered issues
-----------------------------

This is a list of the most frequently encountered issues when using Modin. Some of these
are working as intended, while others are known bugs that are being actively worked on.

Warning during execution: ``defaulting to pandas``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Please note, that while Modin covers a large portion of the pandas API, not all functionality is implemented. For methods that are not yet implemented, such as ``asfreq``, you may see the following:

.. code-block:: text

  UserWarning: `DataFrame.asfreq` defaulting to pandas implementation.

To understand which functions will lead to this warning, we have compiled a list of :doc:`currently supported methods </supported_apis/index>`. When you see this warning, Modin defaults to pandas by converting the Modin dataframe to pandas to perform the operation. Once the operation is complete in pandas, it is converted back to a Modin dataframe. These operations will have a high overhead due to the communication involved and will take longer than pandas. When this is happening, a warning will be given to the user to inform them that this operation will take longer than usual. You can learn more about this :doc:`here <supported_apis/defaulting_to_pandas>`.

If you would like to request a particular method be implemented, feel free to `open an
issue`_. Before you open an issue please make sure that someone else has not already
requested that functionality.

Hanging on ``import modin.pandas as pd``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This can happen when Ray fails to start. It will keep retrying, but often it is faster
to just restart the notebook or interpreter. Generally, this should not happen. Most
commonly this is encountered when starting multiple notebooks or interpreters in quick
succession.

**Solution**

Restart your interpreter or notebook kernel.

**Avoiding this Error**

Avoid starting many Modin notebooks or interpreters in quick succession. Wait 2-3
seconds before starting the next one.

Importing heterogeneous data by ``read_csv``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Since Modin ``read_csv`` imports data in parallel, it can occur that data read by
different partitions can have different type (this happens when columns contains
heterogeneous data, i.e. column values are of different types), which are handled
differntly. Example of such behaviour is shown below.

.. code-block:: python

  import os
  import pandas
  import modin.pandas as pd
  from modin.config import NPartitions

  NPartitions.put(2)

  test_filename = "test.csv"
  # data with heterogeneous values in the first column
  data = """one,2
  3,4
  5,6
  7,8
  9.0,10
  """
  kwargs = {
      # names of the columns to set, if `names` parameter is set,
      # header inffering from the first data row/rows will be disabled
      "names": ["col1", "col2"],

      # explicit setting of data type of column/columns with heterogeneous
      # data will force partitions to read data with correct dtype
      # "dtype": {"col1": str},
  }


  try :
      with open(test_filename, "w") as f:
          f.write(data)

      pandas_df = pandas.read_csv(test_filename, **kwargs)
      pd_df = pd.read_csv(test_filename, **kwargs)

      print(pandas_df)
      print(pd_df)
  finally:
      os.remove(test_filename)

  Output:

  pandas_df:
    col1  col2
  0  one     2
  1    3     4
  2    5     6
  3    7     8
  4  9.0    10

  pd_df:
    col1  col2
  0  one     2
  1    3     4
  2    5     6
  3  7.0     8
  4  9.0    10


In this case `DataFrame` read by pandas in the column ``col1`` contain only ``str`` data
because of the first string value ("one"), that forced pandas to handle full column
data as strings. Modin the fisrt partition (the first three rows) read data similary
to pandas, but the second partition (the last two rows) doesn't contain any strings
in the first column and it's data is read as floats because of the last column
value and as a result `7` value was read as `7.0`, that differs from pandas output.

The above example showed the mechanism of occurence of pandas and Modin ``read_csv``
outputs discrepancy during heterogeneous data import. Please note, that similar
situations can occur during different data/parameters combinations.

**Solution**

In the case if heterogeneous data is detected, corresponding warning will be showed in
the user's console. Currently, the discrepancies of such type doesn't properly handled
by Modin, and to avoid this issue, it is needed to set ``dtype`` parameter of ``read_csv``
function manually to force correct data type definition during data import by
partitions. Note, that to avoid excessive performance degradation, ``dtype`` value should
be set fine-grained as it possible (specify ``dtype`` parameter only for columns with
heterogeneous data).

Setting of ``dtype`` parameter works well for most of the cases, but, unfortunetely, it is
ineffective if data file contain column which should be interpreted as index
(``index_col`` parameter is used) since ``dtype`` parameter is responsible only for data
fields. For example, if in the above example, ``kwargs`` will be set in the next way:

.. code-block:: python

  kwargs = {
      "names": ["col1", "col2"],
      "dtype": {"col1": str},
      "index_col": "col1",
  }

Resulting Modin DataFrame will contain incorrect value as in the case if ``dtype``
is not set:

.. code-block:: python

  col1
  one      2
  3        4
  5        6
  7.0      8
  9.0     10

In this case data should be imported without setting of ``index_col`` parameter
and only then index column should be set as index (by using ``DataFrame.set_index``
funcion for example) as it is shown in the example below:

.. code-block:: python

  pd_df = pd.read_csv(filename, dtype=data_dtype, index_col=None)
  pd_df = pd_df.set_index(index_col_name)
  pd_df.index.name = None


Common errors
---------------

Error when using OmniSci engine along with ``pyarrow.gandiva``: ``LLVM ERROR: inconsistency in registered CommandLine options``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This can happen when you use OmniSci engine along with ``pyarrow.gandiva``:

.. code-block:: python

  import modin.config as cfg
  cfg.Engine.put("Native")  # 'omniscidbe'/'dbe' would be imported with dlopen flags
  cfg.StorageFormat.put("Omnisci")
  cfg.IsExperimental.put(True)
  import modin.pandas as pd
  import pyarrow.gandiva as gandiva  # Error
  CommandLine Error: Option 'enable-vfe' registered more than once!
  LLVM ERROR: inconsistency in registered CommandLine options
  Aborted (core dumped)

**Solution**

Do not use OmniSci engine along with ``pyarrow.gandiva``.

.. _issue: https://github.com/modin-project/modin/issues
.. _Slack: https://modin.org/slack.html

Commit message:

DOCS-#3792, DOCS-#2410: Moved python multiprocessing instructions to troubleshooting
Signed-off-by: Doris Lee <dorisjunglinlee@gmail.com>

docs/getting_started/troubleshooting.rst, after:

Troubleshooting
===============

We hope your experience with Modin is bug-free, but there are some quirks about Modin
that may require troubleshooting. If you are still having issues, please post on
the #support channel on our Slack_ community or open a Github issue_.

Frequently encountered issues
-----------------------------

This is a list of the most frequently encountered issues when using Modin. Some of these
are working as intended, while others are known bugs that are being actively worked on.

Warning during execution: ``defaulting to pandas``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Please note, that while Modin covers a large portion of the pandas API, not all functionality is implemented. For methods that are not yet implemented, such as ``asfreq``, you may see the following:

.. code-block:: text

  UserWarning: `DataFrame.asfreq` defaulting to pandas implementation.

To understand which functions will lead to this warning, we have compiled a list of :doc:`currently supported methods </supported_apis/index>`. When you see this warning, Modin defaults to pandas by converting the Modin dataframe to pandas to perform the operation. Once the operation is complete in pandas, it is converted back to a Modin dataframe. These operations will have a high overhead due to the communication involved and will take longer than pandas. When this is happening, a warning will be given to the user to inform them that this operation will take longer than usual. You can learn more about this :doc:`here <supported_apis/defaulting_to_pandas>`.

If you would like to request a particular method be implemented, feel free to `open an
issue`_. Before you open an issue please make sure that someone else has not already
requested that functionality.

Hanging on ``import modin.pandas as pd``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This can happen when Ray fails to start. It will keep retrying, but often it is faster
to just restart the notebook or interpreter. Generally, this should not happen. Most
commonly this is encountered when starting multiple notebooks or interpreters in quick
succession.

**Solution**

Restart your interpreter or notebook kernel.

**Avoiding this Error**

Avoid starting many Modin notebooks or interpreters in quick succession. Wait 2-3
seconds before starting the next one.

Importing heterogeneous data by ``read_csv``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Since Modin ``read_csv`` imports data in parallel, it can occur that data read by
different partitions can have different type (this happens when columns contains
heterogeneous data, i.e. column values are of different types), which are handled
differntly. Example of such behaviour is shown below.

.. code-block:: python

  import os
  import pandas
  import modin.pandas as pd
  from modin.config import NPartitions

  NPartitions.put(2)

  test_filename = "test.csv"
  # data with heterogeneous values in the first column
  data = """one,2
  3,4
  5,6
  7,8
  9.0,10
  """
  kwargs = {
      # names of the columns to set, if `names` parameter is set,
      # header inffering from the first data row/rows will be disabled
      "names": ["col1", "col2"],

      # explicit setting of data type of column/columns with heterogeneous
      # data will force partitions to read data with correct dtype
      # "dtype": {"col1": str},
  }


  try :
      with open(test_filename, "w") as f:
          f.write(data)

      pandas_df = pandas.read_csv(test_filename, **kwargs)
      pd_df = pd.read_csv(test_filename, **kwargs)

      print(pandas_df)
      print(pd_df)
  finally:
      os.remove(test_filename)

  Output:

  pandas_df:
    col1  col2
  0  one     2
  1    3     4
  2    5     6
  3    7     8
  4  9.0    10

  pd_df:
    col1  col2
  0  one     2
  1    3     4
  2    5     6
  3  7.0     8
  4  9.0    10


In this case `DataFrame` read by pandas in the column ``col1`` contain only ``str`` data
because of the first string value ("one"), that forced pandas to handle full column
data as strings. Modin the fisrt partition (the first three rows) read data similary
to pandas, but the second partition (the last two rows) doesn't contain any strings
in the first column and it's data is read as floats because of the last column
value and as a result `7` value was read as `7.0`, that differs from pandas output.

The above example showed the mechanism of occurence of pandas and Modin ``read_csv``
outputs discrepancy during heterogeneous data import. Please note, that similar
situations can occur during different data/parameters combinations.

**Solution**

In the case if heterogeneous data is detected, corresponding warning will be showed in
the user's console. Currently, the discrepancies of such type doesn't properly handled
by Modin, and to avoid this issue, it is needed to set ``dtype`` parameter of ``read_csv``
function manually to force correct data type definition during data import by
partitions. Note, that to avoid excessive performance degradation, ``dtype`` value should
be set fine-grained as it possible (specify ``dtype`` parameter only for columns with
heterogeneous data).

Setting of ``dtype`` parameter works well for most of the cases, but, unfortunetely, it is
ineffective if data file contain column which should be interpreted as index
(``index_col`` parameter is used) since ``dtype`` parameter is responsible only for data
fields. For example, if in the above example, ``kwargs`` will be set in the next way:

.. code-block:: python

  kwargs = {
      "names": ["col1", "col2"],
      "dtype": {"col1": str},
      "index_col": "col1",
  }

Resulting Modin DataFrame will contain incorrect value as in the case if ``dtype``
is not set:

.. code-block:: python

  col1
  one      2
  3        4
  5        6
  7.0      8
  9.0     10

In this case data should be imported without setting of ``index_col`` parameter
and only then index column should be set as index (by using ``DataFrame.set_index``
funcion for example) as it is shown in the example below:

.. code-block:: python

  pd_df = pd.read_csv(filename, dtype=data_dtype, index_col=None)
  pd_df = pd_df.set_index(index_col_name)
  pd_df.index.name = None


Using Modin with python multiprocessing
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Note that Modin can not be used in conjunction with python multiprocessing. For example, if the Ray engine is selected, it can not be used alongside python multiprocessing.

Common errors
---------------

Error when using OmniSci engine along with ``pyarrow.gandiva``: ``LLVM ERROR: inconsistency in registered CommandLine options``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This can happen when you use OmniSci engine along with ``pyarrow.gandiva``:

.. code-block:: python

  import modin.config as cfg
  cfg.Engine.put("Native")  # 'omniscidbe'/'dbe' would be imported with dlopen flags
  cfg.StorageFormat.put("Omnisci")
  cfg.IsExperimental.put(True)
  import modin.pandas as pd
  import pyarrow.gandiva as gandiva  # Error
  CommandLine Error: Option 'enable-vfe' registered more than once!
  LLVM ERROR: inconsistency in registered CommandLine options
  Aborted (core dumped)

**Solution**

Do not use OmniSci engine along with ``pyarrow.gandiva``.

.. _issue: https://github.com/modin-project/modin/issues
.. _Slack: https://modin.org/slack.html
