docs/index.rst, before:

.. image:: img/MODIN_ver2_hrz.png
   :width: 400px
   :alt: modin logo
   :align: center

====

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   
   getting_started/index
   supported_apis/index
   advanced_usage/index
   developer/index
   contact

.. raw:: html

    <p align="center"><b>To use Modin, replace the pandas import:</b></p>

.. figure:: img/Modin_Pandas_Import.gif
   :align: center

Scale your pandas workflow by changing a single line of code
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Modin uses Ray_ or Dask_ to provide an effortless way to speed up your pandas notebooks,
scripts, and libraries. Unlike other distributed DataFrame libraries, Modin provides
seamless integration and compatibility with existing pandas code. Even using the
DataFrame constructor is identical.

.. code-block:: python

  import modin.pandas as pd
  import numpy as np

  frame_data = np.random.randint(0, 100, size=(2**10, 2**8))
  df = pd.DataFrame(frame_data)

To use Modin, you do not need to know how many cores your system has and you do not need
to specify how to distribute the data. In fact, you can continue using your previous
pandas notebooks while experiencing a considerable speedup from Modin, even on a single
machine. Once you’ve changed your import statement, you’re ready to use Modin just like
you would pandas.

Installation and choosing your compute engine
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Modin can be installed from PyPI:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install modin


If you don't have Ray_ or Dask_ installed, you will need to install Modin with one
of the targets:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install "modin[ray]" # Install Modin dependencies and Ray to run on Ray
   pip install "modin[dask]" # Install Modin dependencies and Dask to run on Dask
   pip install "modin[all]" # Install all of the above

Modin will automatically detect which engine you have installed and use that for
scheduling computation!

If you want to choose a specific compute engine to run on, you can set the environment
variable ``MODIN_ENGINE`` and Modin will do computation with that engine:

.. code-block:: bash

   export MODIN_ENGINE=ray  # Modin will use Ray
   export MODIN_ENGINE=dask  # Modin will use Dask

This can also be done within a notebook/interpreter before you import Modin:

.. code-block:: python

   import os

   os.environ["MODIN_ENGINE"] = "ray"  # Modin will use Ray
   os.environ["MODIN_ENGINE"] = "dask"  # Modin will use Dask

   import modin.pandas as pd

Faster pandas, even on your laptop
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

.. image:: img/read_csv_benchmark.png
   :height: 350px
   :width: 300px
   :alt: Plot of read_csv
   :align: right

The ``modin.pandas`` `DataFrame`_ is an extremely light-weight parallel DataFrame. Modin
transparently distributes the data and computation so that all you need to do is
continue using the pandas API as you were before installing Modin. Unlike other parallel
DataFrame systems, Modin is an extremely light-weight, robust DataFrame. Because it is so
light-weight, Modin provides speed-ups of up to 4x on a laptop with 4 physical cores.

In pandas, you are only able to use one core at a time when you are doing computation of
any kind. With Modin, you are able to use all of the CPU cores on your machine. Even in
``read_csv``, we see large gains by efficiently distributing the work across your entire
machine.

.. code-block:: python

  import modin.pandas as pd

  df = pd.read_csv("my_dataset.csv")

Modin is a DataFrame for datasets from 1MB to 1TB+
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

We have focused heavily on bridging the solutions between DataFrames for small data
(e.g. pandas) and large data. Often data scientists require different tools for doing
the same thing on different sizes of data. The DataFrame solutions that exist for 1MB do
not scale to 1TB+, and the overheads of the solutions for 1TB+ are too costly for
datasets in the 1KB range. With Modin, because of its light-weight, robust, and scalable
nature, you get a fast DataFrame at 1MB and 1TB+.

**Modin is currently under active development. Requests and contributions are welcome!**

If you are interested in contributions please check out the :doc:`Getting Started</getting_started/index>`
guide then refer to the :doc:`Developer Documentation</developer/index>` section,
where you can find system architecture, internal implementation details, and other useful information.
Also check out the `Github`_ to view open issues and make contributions.

.. _Dataframe: https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.html
.. _Ray: https://github.com/ray-project/ray/
.. _Dask: https://dask.org/
.. _Github: https://github.com/modin-project/modin

Commit message:

DOCS-#3792, DOCS-#2410: Added index.rst changes
Signed-off-by: Doris Lee <dorisjunglinlee@gmail.com>

docs/index.rst, after:

.. image:: img/MODIN_ver2_hrz.png
   :width: 400px
   :alt: modin logo
   :align: center

====

.. toctree::
   :hidden:
   
   getting_started/quickstart
   supported_apis/index
   advanced_usage/index
   developer/index
   contact

.. raw:: html

    <p align="center"><b>To use Modin, replace the pandas import:</b></p>

.. figure:: img/Modin_Pandas_Import.gif
   :align: center

Scale your pandas workflow by changing a single line of code
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Modin uses Ray_ or Dask_ to provide an effortless way to speed up your pandas notebooks,
scripts, and libraries. Unlike other distributed DataFrame libraries, Modin provides
seamless integration and compatibility with existing pandas code. Even using the
DataFrame constructor is identical.

.. code-block:: python

  import modin.pandas as pd
  import numpy as np

  frame_data = np.random.randint(0, 100, size=(2**10, 2**8))
  df = pd.DataFrame(frame_data)

To use Modin, you do not need to know how many cores your system has and you do not need
to specify how to distribute the data. In fact, you can continue using your previous
pandas notebooks while experiencing a considerable speedup from Modin, even on a single
machine. Once you’ve changed your import statement, you’re ready to use Modin just like
you would pandas.

Installation and choosing your compute engine
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Modin can be installed from PyPI:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install modin


If you don't have Ray_ or Dask_ installed, you will need to install Modin with one
of the targets:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install "modin[ray]" # Install Modin dependencies and Ray to run on Ray
   pip install "modin[dask]" # Install Modin dependencies and Dask to run on Dask
   pip install "modin[all]" # Install all of the above

Modin will automatically detect which engine you have installed and use that for
scheduling computation!

If you want to choose a specific compute engine to run on, you can set the environment
variable ``MODIN_ENGINE`` and Modin will do computation with that engine:

.. code-block:: bash

   export MODIN_ENGINE=ray  # Modin will use Ray
   export MODIN_ENGINE=dask  # Modin will use Dask

This can also be done within a notebook/interpreter before you import Modin:

.. code-block:: python

   import os

   os.environ["MODIN_ENGINE"] = "ray"  # Modin will use Ray
   os.environ["MODIN_ENGINE"] = "dask"  # Modin will use Dask

   import modin.pandas as pd

Faster pandas, even on your laptop
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

.. image:: img/read_csv_benchmark.png
   :height: 350px
   :width: 300px
   :alt: Plot of read_csv
   :align: right

The ``modin.pandas`` `DataFrame`_ is an extremely light-weight parallel DataFrame. Modin
transparently distributes the data and computation so that all you need to do is
continue using the pandas API as you were before installing Modin. Unlike other parallel
DataFrame systems, Modin is an extremely light-weight, robust DataFrame. Because it is so
light-weight, Modin provides speed-ups of up to 4x on a laptop with 4 physical cores.

In pandas, you are only able to use one core at a time when you are doing computation of
any kind. With Modin, you are able to use all of the CPU cores on your machine. Even in
``read_csv``, we see large gains by efficiently distributing the work across your entire
machine.

.. code-block:: python

  import modin.pandas as pd

  df = pd.read_csv("my_dataset.csv")

Modin is a DataFrame for datasets from 1MB to 1TB+
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

We have focused heavily on bridging the solutions between DataFrames for small data
(e.g. pandas) and large data. Often data scientists require different tools for doing
the same thing on different sizes of data. The DataFrame solutions that exist for 1MB do
not scale to 1TB+, and the overheads of the solutions for 1TB+ are too costly for
datasets in the 1KB range. With Modin, because of its light-weight, robust, and scalable
nature, you get a fast DataFrame at 1MB and 1TB+.

**Modin is currently under active development. Requests and contributions are welcome!**

If you are interested in learning more about Modin, please check out the :doc:`Getting Started</getting_started/quickstart>`
guide then refer to the :doc:`Developer Documentation</developer/index>` section,
where you can find system architecture, internal implementation details, and other useful information.
Also check out the `Github`_ to view open issues and make contributions.

.. _Dataframe: https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.html
.. _Ray: https://github.com/ray-project/ray/
.. _Dask: https://dask.org/
.. _Github: https://github.com/modin-project/modin
